FORMATION OF AN LLC 

The DFI’s website is very straightforward and goes through the step-by-step filing process for forming an LLC. The following steps are required for the formation of an LLC: 

Before filing, please search the DFI database for names before choosing one. 

1. File the Articles of Organization on the Wisconsin Department of Financial Institutions’ 

website. https://www.wdfi.org/apps/CorpFormation/directions.aspx?type=12 

a. Name of the Entity 

b. Registered Agent: The name of the registered agent and the registered office address must be provided. This can be a personal address but remember that the information is public once filed with the DFI. The registered agent’s address cannot be a PO Box. 

c. When asked what type of management (either Manager or Member), please chose Manager. 

d. Organizer: The name and complete addresses of the organizer. An organizer participates in forming the company and is responsible for those costs unless/until the company indemnifies the Organizer via ratification of actions. In your case this could be either one of you. 

e. Drafter: The name of the drafter of this document. The drafter is the person who is completing the articles of organization. 

f. Signature: The articles must be signed by the organizers and can be signed electronically. 

g. Contact: The name, address, email address, and phone number of the contact person for this filing. All communications regarding this filing will be via the e-mail address of the contact person. 

h. Payment: A credit card will be required to file online (Visa or MasterCard). If paid online, the filing fee is $130.00. 

i. There will not be a paper certificate once the LLC is filed with the DFI. The organizer will receive notice of “submitted but not filed,” then receive a notification that the company has been filed. 

2. Obtain a Federal Employer Identification Number (“EIN”). 

a. This can be obtained from the IRS website found at: https://www.irs.gov/businesses/small-businesses-self-employed/apply-for-an-employer-identification-number-ein-online 

b. The EIN for your business will only be used to open a bank account and for Employment Tax purposes if the LLC has an employee in the future.  
